Source Path: gitlab_docs_html/ci/pipelines/instance_runner_compute_minutes/index.html

Compute usage for instance runners
Tier
: Free, Premium, Ultimate
Offering
: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated
The amount of compute minute usage that projects can consume to run jobs on admin-managed
instance runners
is limited. This limit is tracked with an instance runner compute quota on the GitLab server. When a namespace exceeds quota, the
quota is enforced
.
Admin-managed instance runners are those
managed by the GitLab instance administrator
.
On GitLab.com instance runners are both admin-managed and GitLab-hosted because the instance is managed by GitLab.
Compute quota enforcement
Monthly reset
Compute minutes usage is reset to
0
monthly.
The compute quota is
reset to the monthly allocation
.
For example, if you have a monthly quota of 10,000 compute minutes:
On April 1 you have 10,000 compute minutes available.
During April, you use 6,000 of the 10,000 compute minutes available in the quota.
On May 1, the accumulated compute usage resets to 0, and you have 10,000
compute minutes available for May.
Usage data for the previous month is kept to show a historical view of the consumption over time.
Notifications
An in-app banner is displayed and an email notification sent to the
namespace owners when the remaining compute minutes is:
Less than 25% of the quota.
Less than 5% of the quota.
Completely used (zero minutes remaining).
Enforcement
When the compute quota is used for the current month, instance runners stop processing new jobs.
In pipelines that have already started:
Any pending job (not yet started) or retried job that must be processed by instance runners is dropped.
Jobs running on instance runners can continue to run until the overall namespace usage goes over-quota
by 1,000 compute minutes. After the 1,000 compute minute grace period, any remaining running jobs
are also dropped.
Project and group runners are not affected by the compute quota and continue processing jobs.
View usage
You can view the compute usage for a group or personal namespace to understand
compute usage trends and how many compute minutes remain.
In some cases, the quota limit is replaced by one of the following labels:
Unlimited
: For namespaces with unlimited compute quota.
Not supported
: For namespaces where instance runners are not enabled.
View usage for a group
Prerequisites:
You must have the Owner role for the group.
To view compute usage for your group:
On the left sidebar, select
Search or go to
and find your group. If you’ve
turned on the new navigation
, this field is on the top bar. The group must not be a subgroup.
Select
Settings
>
Usage quotas
.
Select the
Pipelines
tab.
The projects list shows projects with compute usage or instance runners usage
in the current month only. The list includes all projects in the namespace and its
subgroups, sorted in descending order of compute usage.
View usage for a personal namespace
You can view the compute usage for your personal namespace:
On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you’ve
turned on the new navigation
, this button is in the upper-right corner.
Select
Edit profile
.
On the left sidebar, select
Usage quotas
.
The projects list shows
personal projects
with compute usage or instance runners usage in the current month only.